welcome to the man of recaps this is the
hundred the seventh and final season
remember last season ended on a
cliffhanger as the gang had just
activated sanctum's weird alien orb the
anomaly opened up and this random new
girl came through and immediately
stabbed octavia which warped her out of
there
now an invisible force grabs bellamy and
pulls him through the anomaly so echo
gabriel and the new girl chase after him
meanwhile back in sanctum mark cruz
trying to hold a piece together as the
sanctimites and the children of gabriel
have been at war for a hundred years
everyone still thinks john murphy and
amore are two of the resurrected primes
so they're able to keep the peace for
now although they have to remember to
stay in character they were not dating
they were brother and sister
the only real prime left is russell and
clark's gonna let him live to keep the
peace until he reminds her how he
snatched her mom's body and forced her
to blow her out the airlock yeah clark's
still pretty mad about that decides to
burn the palace down and russell's gonna
be executed but something unexpected
happens because inside russell's mind
drive is shade haida the dark commander
remember he tried to possess maddie last
season so they had to take the flame out
but not before he managed to email
himself over to wrestle's mind drive and
now he kills russell in the mind space
and snatches his body now the anomaly
crew gets spit out in the middle of a
lake on a brand new planet and the new
girl reveals she is hope diosa colonel
dios's daughter
and this is where she grew up remember
last season diosa went into the anomaly
and octavia followed a few seconds later
but then a few seconds after that came
on back with no memory of what happened
turns out time passes much lower on this
planet because when octavia arrived
dioza had already built the cabin and
was giving birth to baby hope octavia
kept trying to get back to the anomaly
at the bottom of the lake but it's just
too deep so she ended up spending six
years happily retired with diosa and
hope until one day the anomaly activated
and some crazy spacesuit dudes came
through
they hid hope but the adults were
captured leaving hope all alone but soon
some random other guys showed up turns
out that civilization uses this planet
as a prison since you can serve a
10-year sentence in just a few minutes
he became a father figure to hope taught
her how to fight so when they came back
to pick him up he'd help her ambush him
and rescue her mom and auntie oh but oh
he got stabbed so hope had to go it
alone now when octavia and dios were
captured they were brought to the home
planet bardo they hooked octavia up to a
memory machine where she was worked on
by this kind of hot and nice guy
through her memories he did a full
series re-watch and now has kind of a
huge crush on her so when a grown-up
hope arrived to rescue her and what had
been relatively just a few hours memory
guy helped him escape hope stayed behind
to save her mom they sent octavia first
which is why she arrived back on sanctum
in relatively just a few seconds hope
got caught though but managed to make a
deal where they'd spare her mother if
she went back to sanctum and stabbed
octavia with the tracking teleportation
knife but now they're back to square one
diosa octavia and bellamy now are
prisoners and they're trapped on this
planet with no way off luckily there's
another prisoner here now and he only
has five years on his sentence so in the
blink of an eye five years pass when
they come to pick them up they're
ambushed again and even though they made
friends with this guy over five years
echo doesn't know if they can trust him
so they leave him there while they go to
a saltbarto now the civilization here is
called the disciples and they're a crazy
religious cult who worships the shepherd
and they're all jazzed up about the last
war they find octavia again but what
happened to bellamy well when he was
first picked up he tried to fight and a
grenade went off oh
billamy exploded nah i'm not buying it
don't believe bellamy's dead for real
after he and clark make
out furiously and i see his cold dead
body bleeding out on the floor his
girlfriend echo though is pretty upset
elsewhere dios is a prisoner but she's a
badass manages to escape with nothing
but a spoon she and her daughter are
briefly reunited but the rescue attempt
fails they're all captured now so now
these disciples finally warped a sanctum
they all have cloaking devices by the
way and they're like hey clark we're not
here to fight
actually we need your help but master
engineer raven reyes got one of their
helmets and sees that they're actually
trying to capture clark so
she goes and ambushes the ambush so now
clark and crew are going to rescue their
friends but there's a whole bunch of
planets connected by these wormholes and
they guess wrong at first eventually
they make it to bardo and this is big
news for them so they wake up
the shepherd yeah he's not a
mythological figure he's just a real
dude named bill
in fact clark recognizes him he is bill
cadigan the cult leader of the second
dawn who built the bunker where most of
humanity survived the second nuclear
apocalypse yes we actually get a
flashback now to the original nuclear
apocalypse where the members of the
second dawn did survive in their bunker
after a bit as you may remember genius
scientist becca franco came back to
earth designer of ally and the flame
and the nightblood formula that makes
you immune to radiation bill cadigan
wasn't interested in living on the
irradiated earth because he had just
found the alien orb on earth and is
convinced it would lead them to
salvation unfortunately he had no idea
how to turn it on but becca franco did
because of the ai in her head she could
like hear which symbols would activate
it
in fact one combination of symbols
sounded super special and it turned into
a white portal that boom she went into
for
just a second but came out wouldn't talk
about what happened but was like
bill cadogan can't go in there bill
burned her at the stake to get the flame
and thus the combination but his
daughter liked
becca and so took the flame gave a bunch
of people the night blood formula and
they became the first grounders
meanwhile bill led his people through a
normal green portal which apparently led
them to bartow where he became the
shepherd and survived this long by cryo
sleeping through most of it but now he
thinks he finally has a white portal
combination because he thinks the flame
is in clark's head
yeah i guess octavia's memories showed
when she put it in briefly but never
when she took it out so clark's like
yeah sure got the flame i'll help you
out if you let my friends go but the
friends have now been converted into
disciples you see they've translated the
ancient barton texts and it says when
you open the white portal
it begins the last war and if you win
you transcend but if you lose you're
wiped out so the disciples think that
the good guy's going to save humanity
and that's why their catchphrase is
for all mankind for all mankind when
clark talks to me alone though it's like
hey so you guys are faking right and
it's like oh yeah most definitely
although octavia was not faking when she
hooked up with memory guy yeah it's been
like a decade since she last got laid
but turns out echo has a plan right now
to genocide the whole gang of them she's
going to put the bio weapon in the water
supply she's real mad that killed her
boyfriend bellamy but clark's like hey
girl i've been there genocide's not the
answer they managed to talk her down but
hope is still mad she kills this guy
grabs the bioweapon goes to put it in
but oh stopped by her mom
not to save the disciples but to save
her daughter from repeating her mistakes
of committing mass murder these
shenanigans have made things pretty
tense so clark's like hey just let all
my friends go and i'll give you the code
but there's a new player
it's bellamy blake he survived yes
clarkamie is back on the table
except of course echo's like yo that's
literally my boyfriend clark feels
bellamy in on how she's bluffing about
still having the flame but he
immediately
tattles on her bellamy what happened to
you well as you might have guessed he
didn't explode he was blown through a
portal but not back to sanctum to some
whole other planet a disciple got blown
through with him and at first they
fought bought to get to the
teleportation stone they needed to work
together to climb this mountain a huge
blizzard came through forced him to take
shelter in this cave
and months went by bellamy grew out an
awesome mountain beard this guy was
praying to the shepherd
every dang day it's like hey what could
it hurt just try once and the very first
time he tries to pray he has a vision of
the shepherd and the storm clears
yeah he's a believer now so they make a
deal where most of the friends will be
collateral on another planet while clark
takes him to sanctum to get the flame
for real but when they arrive back on
sanctum they find that
things have changed quite a bit long
story short russell eventually revealed
that he shade hayda now and most of the
grounders are accustomed to following
their commander no question
indra tried to rally one crew against
him but it came down to an old-fashioned
grounder combat
indra was about to lose when what's this
it's maddie arya starking her way in
slashed his eye he was gonna kill her
though so indra surrendered and knelt to
spare maddie's life
and shade haida took over sanctum bill's
like wow cool story bro but we have
laser guns and cloaking devices so
just gonna ignore you clark hands over
the flame but taking it out of matty
damaged it so gabriel's gotta fix it but
earlier jordan was reviewing the
translations and because of his
knowledge of korean figured out that
they had it wrong it's not a last war
it's a last test gabriel knows that
cadigan's not a good guy he should not
take the test to represent all of
humanity and so destroys the flame for
good
in the confusion our crew gets the upper
hand they have cat again send them to
where their friends are waiting but
knowledge of the flame may not be gone
for good because maddie's been drawing
her memories of it and bellamy finds the
book that shows she may know the code to
open the white portal protecting maddie
is clark's number one priority so she
points her gun at bellamy he's like
clark please trust me on this it's for
the good of all mankind
plus you're not gonna shoot me but clark
does oh
clark shoots bellamy that was her last
bullet so clark doesn't even get the
journal she has to portal out of there
and i know what i said before about his
cold dead body bleeding out on the
ground but i mean they're gonna jon snow
him somehow right so on the other side
of the portal what planet is this
they're in the bunker they're back on a
radiated earth except turns out it's not
so irradiated yeah in the hundred years
or so they were in cryo sleep
earth bounced back they start planting a
way back but clark has a different idea
she's like hey all the main characters
are here let's just stay on earth and
start over this goes well for a little
bit the youngest members of the group
jordan and hope strike up a romance but
the shepherd's not given up for some
reason shadow doesn't have those
memories but he makes a deal to go get
maddie for him so as maddie and gabriel
are playing the piano oh
gabriel stabbed by invisible shade hayda
turns into a big fight in the fighting
pits shade hate is gonna lose so he
stabs himself with the tracker knife
pieces out but gabriel does die and
maddie feels bad no one else is gonna
die for me
grabs the tracker knife stabs herself
boom warped out of there just then
someone else is coming through the
portal it's a bomb
miller who i've never mentioned before
because he's kind of a minor character
even though he is part of the original
hundred has been there since the
beginning he gets the mvp award here for
jumping into action when everyone else
freezes and gets the bomb locked away it
does cause a collapse though and
amore is grievously injured jackson
works to stabilize her i've never
mentioned him before either but he is
the doctor has been around since the
very beginning and is incidentally
miller's boyfriend but it's too late
amore has died but actually it's not
necessarily the end for amore she and
murphy do have their mind drives in
they're not about to body snatch someone
but if they put our mind drive into
murphy's they can hang out in the mind
space
it won't last long too much sharing a
body we'll end up killing them both but
murphy doesn't care he doesn't want to
live without her in fact murphy's ark
has been completed this season from the
selfish cockroach who would do anything
to survive
to putting himself in danger multiple
times to save other people now the
disciples are getting the memories from
maddie but they're buried way down there
it'll be super dangerous to dig but the
shepherd's like i don't care do it
and memory guy's starting to think that
he's on the wrong side so he teleports
clark and octavia they bust in to save
maddie but they're too late
she's still alive but she is brain dead
there's no time to grieve though they
did get the combination so enraged by
maddie's death clark goes into full one
adam mode
commander of death meanwhile the
disciple army is ready for the last war
but it's just jordan who comes through
with an emp
backpack shuts down all their fancy tech
then the rest of the grounders bust
through ready to fight if necessary now
cadigan has activated the white portal
and it brings him to
some nice fancy spacey place there he
meets his daughter but it's not really
her it's just the form she's taking
this is apparently a hyper-advanced
alien species that has transcended their
mortal bodies and become beings of pure
light when a species gets advanced
enough to figure out the orb they give
them a test to see if they deserve to
transcend with them or be
exterminated categorize all amped up to
start the test when oh
shot in the head oh man hardcore clark
pencils down this switch appearance is
for clark and now show up as
lexa all right but it's like hey clark
we've read your memories and i know you
think you've done everything to save
your friends but uh you're not a good
person but clark's like hold up who are
you to judge me
creepy alien wiping out entire species
because they don't pass your test
go float yourself unfortunately that
wasn't the answer they were looking for
and humanity has failed the sphere turns
red which is not a good sign but raven
reyes figures hey
maybe i can get a re-test for raven the
being appears as abby who is clark's
mother but raven's mentor it's like hey
sorry no retakes but raven convinces him
to give him one more shot she warps
right into the field where the last of
humanity is ready to kill each other and
raven's like look but they haven't yet
give him a chance
indeed memory guy comes out right now to
be like hey everyone stand down this is
not the way but
shade haters in the woods like yeah no
it is boom shoots him which sets off the
shooting
but indra does what she should have done
at the beginning of the season and blows
him up this causes enough of a break in
the fighting for octavia to come out and
gives an impassioned speech we are all
one crew we can't be killing each other
and the grounders all follow her lead
the disciples have no idea what's going
on so they put their guns down and
humanity maybe deserves to be saved they
start glowing what the heck i guess it's
they're literally transcending
yes everyone's glow and turns into
spirits of light it's the literal
rapture
luckily maddie's alive enough she counts
and transcends too
but a clark is left behind she heads
back to earth ready to live
out her days as the last human in the
universe but the dog runs away is
someone else here
is it bellamy can they finally get
together adam and even it but no it's
just fake alien alexa again
she explains that humanity's having a
great time being transcended but some of
them decided not to stay
and indeed waiting for her on earth are
all our main characters they said
transcendence is for dummies we're
hanging out with clark on earth so it's
a weird ending with humanity
transcending but a happy one for our
crew
except of course for the glaring absence
of bellamy but in any case our hundred
survivors are down to a dozen restarting
life on earth
and that's how the hundred comes to an
end
if you like this recap hit that
subscribe button for more of the best
recaps of tv and movies and if you love
this recap hit the join button to
support the channel as a member